# Team_Heights
A marketing company would like to know if varsity (college) swimmers are (on average)
taller than their volleyball counterparts. Create a data-driven solution to answer this question.

To complete the task, I utilized web scraping and scraped the heights of all men and women’s swimming and volleyball teams. For my code, I began by importing ‘requests’ for making HTTP requests and ‘BeautifulSoup’ from ‘bs4’ to extract data from web pages. To make my code simple and efficient, I decided to create a function to scrape. This way, I do not have to rewrite the code each time to scrape from a different web page. Within the function, I started by making a request to the server with “page = requests.get(url)”. To check if the request was successful, I added “page.status_code” from the ‘requests’ library. Once the status code states ‘200’, it means that the request has gone through. I then created an empty list named “heights” for a loop later in the function to append the scraped heights. Following that, I can begin coding for the scrape. To start, I made sure the scrape is applicable by creating a condition, “if page.status_code == 200:”. If the request was not successful, then I can not proceed. Afterwards, I created a variable ‘soup’ with the value, “BeautifulSoup(page.content, 'html.parser')”. This provides me with a BeautifulSoup object that parses/analyzes the web page’s contents and allows me to apply the BeautifulSoup library for navigating. Next, to have the code search for the heights, I have to find the tag and class of the listed heights in the web page. To do this, I changed the roster view to ‘Grid’ and then inspected the element of a height. This gave me the tag - td, and the class - height. Given the information, I created a variable, “height_tags” and added the value, “soup.find_all('td', class_= 'height')” which uses ‘BeautifulSoup’ to find all heights through its tag and class. Following that, I used the loop that was demonstrated by the professor. It is a ‘for loop’ that takes every ‘height_tag’ in the previously created ‘height_tags’ variable, converts them to only inches for easier calculation, and then appends them to the list, ‘heights’. To do so, the loop has variables, feet and inches, that gets the text within the ‘height_tag’ using ‘height_tag.get_text()’, states the index ([0] is ft and [2:] is inch) it is taking with ‘[]’, converts it to a float, and then used in the ‘height_in_inches’ variable to calculate the heights in inches. Then ‘heights.append(height_in_inches)’ finishes the loop by taking the calculated heights and appending it into the list- which provides us all heights from the web page. After the loop, ‘return heights’ is used to return the values. I then used the function for every roster web page and used “sum(scrape_heights(url)) / len(scrape_heights(url))” to find the averages. I also made every average a variable to average the respective teams of Swimming and Volleyball to find whether one was taller than the other.

After scraping the heights all teams and calculating the averages, I discovered that the men’s Swimming Team has an average height of 70.74 inches (5 feet and 10.74 inches) and the men’s Volleyball Team has an average height of 72.25 inches (6 feet and 0.25 inches). The men’s Volleyball team is on average, taller than the men’s Swimming team by 1.51 inches. The average height of the women’s Swimming team is 64.33 inches (5 feet and 4.33 inches) and the average height of the women’s Volleyball team is 67.25 inches (5 feet and 7.25 inches). On average, the women’s Volleyball team is taller than the women’s Swimming team by 2.92 inches. The solution to the marketing company’s question: if on average, the varsity Swimming team is taller than their Volleyball counterparts, the answer is no. The average volleyball player is taller than the average swimmer by 2.23 inches. The average volleyball player is 69.75 inches (5 feet and 9.75 inches) and the average swimmer is 67.5 inches (5 feet and 7.5 inches). 
